BD-3782: Update Intelligent Timing FAQs (#8846)
braze-inc/braze-docs: _docs/_user_guide/brazeai/intelligence/faqs.md

- Your Canvas is composed of a single control group, with no variants added

---

## Intelligent Timing

### General

#### What does Intelligent Timing predict?

Intelligent Timing focuses on predicting when a user is most likely to open or click your messages to ensure your messages reach users at optimal engagement times.

#### Is Intelligent Timing calculated separately for each day of the week?

No, Intelligent Timing isn’t tied to specific days. Instead, it personalizes send times based on each user’s unique engagement patterns and the channel you’re using, such as email or push notifications. This ensures your messages reach users when they’re most receptive.

### Calculations

#### What data is used to calculate the optimal time for each user?

To calculate the optimal time, Intelligent Timing:

1. Analyzes the interaction data for each user recorded by the Braze SDK. This includes:
  - Session times
  - Push direct opens
  - Push influenced opens
  - Email clicks
  - Email opens (excluding machine opens)
2. Groups these events by time, identifying the optimal send time for each user.

#### Are Machine Opens included when calculating optimal time?

> No, machine opens—automated system interactions—are excluded from calculations for optimal time. This ensures that send times are based solely on genuine user engagement, providing more accurate timing for your campaigns.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
No, machine opens—automated system interactions—are excluded from calculations for optimal time. This means that send times are based solely on genuine user engagement, providing more accurate timing for your campaigns.
```
Or something similar to remove "ensures"

#### How precise is the optimal time?

> Intelligent Timing schedules messages during each user’s “most engaged hour” based on their session starts and message open events. Within that hour, the message timing is rounded to the nearest 5 minutes. For example, if a user’s optimal time is calculated as 4:58 PM, the message will be scheduled for 5:00 PM. There may be slight delays in delivery due to system activity during busy periods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Intelligent Timing schedules messages during each user’s “most engaged hour” based on their session starts and message open events. Within that hour, the message timing is rounded to the nearest five minutes. For example, if a user’s optimal time is calculated as 4:58 PM, the message will be scheduled for 5:00 PM. There may be slight delays in delivery due to system activity during busy periods.
```

#### What are the fallback calculations if there is not enough data?

> If there are fewer than 5 relevant events for a user, Intelligent Timing uses the [fallback time][1] in your message settings. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If there are fewer than five relevant events for a user, Intelligent Timing uses the [fallback time][1] in your message settings. 
```

### Campaign management

#### How far in advance should I launch an Intelligent Timing campaign to successfully deliver it to all users in all time zones?

> Braze calculates the optimal time at midnight in Samoa time, one of the first time zones in the world. In a single day, it spans approximately 48 hours. For example, someone whose optimal time is 12:01 am and lives in Australia has already had their optimal time pass, and it's "too late" to send to them. For these reasons, you need to schedule 48 hours in advance to ensure that everyone in the world who uses your app will get it successfully delivered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Braze calculates the optimal time at midnight in Samoa time, one of the first time zones in the world. In a single day, it spans approximately 48 hours. For example, someone whose optimal time is 12:01 am and lives in Australia has already had their optimal time pass, and it's "too late" to send to them. For these reasons, you need to schedule 48 hours in advance to successfully deliver to everyone in the world who uses your app.
```

We recommend that if you have Intelligent Timing campaigns, leave more time for the A/B test to finish and schedule the Winning Variant to send for two days out instead of one. 

### Technical considerations

#### When does Braze check the eligibility criteria for segment and audience filters?

Braze performs two checks when a campaign is launched:

1. **Initial check:** At midnight in the first timezone on the day of send.
2. **Scheduled time check:** Just before sending at the time Intelligent Timing selected for the user.

Be careful when filtering based on other campaign sends to avoid targeting ineligible segments. For example, if you were to send out two campaigns on the same day for different times, and add a filter that only allows users to receive the second campaign if they’ve received the first, users won’t receive the second campaign. This is because no one was eligible when the campaign was first created and segments were formed.

#### Can I use Quiet Hours in my Intelligent Timing campaign?

> Quiet Hours can be used on a campaign that uses Intelligent Timing. The Intelligent Timing algorithm will avoid Quiet Hours to ensure the message is still sent to all eligible users. That said, we recommend turning Quiet Hours off unless there are policy, compliance, or other legal implications to when messages can and can't be sent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Quiet Hours can be used on a campaign that uses Intelligent Timing. The Intelligent Timing algorithm will avoid Quiet Hours so that it still sends the message to all eligible users. That said, we recommend turning Quiet Hours off unless there are policy, compliance, or other legal implications to when messages can and can't be sent.
```
